Now Mister Rogers is certainly one of the best things that ever happened to public television and his people audio award is testament to that fact. We in public television are proud of Fred Rogers and I'm proud to present Mister Rogers to you now from Iraq did you get the phone. Senator past story. This is a philosophical statement and would take about 10 minutes to read so I'll not do that. Of. One of the first things that a child learns in a healthy family is traps. And I trust what you have said that you will read this it's very important to me I care deeply about children. My first will make you happy if you read it. I'd just like to talk about it if all right of my first children's programming was on WQAD 15 years ago. And its budget was $30. Now with the help of. The Sears Roebuck foundation and national educational television as well as. All of the affiliated stations each station Hayes to show our program. It's a unique kind of finding an educational television. With this help now our program has a budget of $6000. It may sound like quite a difference but $6000 pays for less than 2 minutes of cartoons. 2 minutes of animated. What I sometimes say bombardment I'm very much concerned as I know you are. About what's being delivered to our children in this country. And I've worked in the field of child development for 6 years now trying to understand the inner needs of children. We deal with such things as. As the inner drama of child. We don't have to bop somebody over the head to make him. To to make drama on the screen. We deal with such things as getting a hair cut. Or the feelings about brothers and sisters and the kind of anger that arises in simple family situations and we speak to it constructively along the program is it it's a half hour every day. Most channels schedule it in in the noon time as well as in the evening. Of W. ETA here has scheduled in the late afternoon. Could we get a copy of this so that we can see. Maybe not today but I'd like to see the program I'd like very much for you like to see the program itself or any one of them say. We we made 100 programs for E. and the eastern educational network and then when the money ran out people in Boston and Pittsburgh and Chicago all came to the fore and said we've got to have more of this neighborhood expression of care. And this is what. This is what I give I give an expression of care every day to each child. Help him realize that he is unique. I am the program by saying you've made this day a special day by day just you're being you. There's no person in the whole world like you. And I like you just the way you are. And I feel that if we in public television can only. Make it clear that feeling. Our mention uncle and manageable we will have done a great service. For mental health. Well I think that it's much more dramatic that 2 men could be working out their feelings of anger. Much more dramatic than showing something of gun fire. I'm constantly concerned about what our children are seen. And for 15 years I have tried in this country and Canada to present what I feel is a meaningful expression of care. Do you have an a rating. I'm a hoax yes and I do all the pop ups and I write all the music and I write all the screen I'm supposed to be a pretty tough guy in this the first time I've had goose bumps for the last 2 days. Well I'm grateful not only for your goose bumps but for your interests in in our kind of communication. Could I tell you the words of one of the songs which I feel is very important is. This has to do with that good feeling of control which I feel that the children need to know it's there and it starts out what do you do with the man that you feel and that first line came straight from a child I work with children doing pop ups in in very personal communication with small groups what do you do with the mad that you feel when you feel so mad you could buy. When the whole wide world seems oh so wrong and nothing you do seems very right. What do you do do you hunt your bag D. a pound some clay or some dough. Do you round up friends for a game of tag or see how fast you go. It's great to be able to stop. When you plan the thing that's wrong. And be able to do something else instead and think this song I can stop when I want to can stop when I wish can stop stop stop anytime. And what a good feeling to feel like this and know that the feeling is really mine know that there's something deep inside that helps us become what we can. For a girl can be some day a lady. And the boy can be some day a man I think it's wonderful. I think it's wonderful. Looks like you just in the $20000000. 
