Finally if we are to win the battle. It is now going on around the world. Between freedom and tyranny. The dramatic achievements in space which occurred in recent weeks. Should have made clear to us all as did the Sputnik in 1957. The impact. All of this adventure. On the minds of men everywhere. Who are attempting to make a determination of which road they should take. Since early in my term our efforts in space have been under review. With the advice of the vice president who is chairman of the national space council. We have examined where we are strong and where we are not. Where we may succeed and where we may not. Now it is time to take longer strides. Time for a great new American enterprise. Time for this nation to take a clearly leading role in space achievement which in many ways may hold the key to our future on earth. I believe we possess all the resources and talents necessary. But the fact of the matter are that we have never made. The national decisions on Marshall the national report sources required for such leadership. We have never specified long range goals on an urgent time schedule or manage our resources and our time so as to ensure their fulfillment. Recognizing the headstock. 10 by the Soviets. With their large rocket engines which gives them many months of lead time. And recognizing the likelihood that they will exploit this lead for sometime to come in still more impressive successes. We nevertheless are required to make new efforts on our own. Fallout we cannot guarantee. That we shall one day be first. We can guarantee that any failure to make this effort will make us lost. We take an additional risk by making it in full view of the world. But as shown by the feet of astronauts yeah. This very risky enhances our stature when we are successful. This is not merely a race. Spaces open doors now. And our eagerness to share its meaning is not governed by the efforts of others. We go into space. Because whatever mankind must undertake free men must fully share. I therefore ask the Congress above and beyond the increases I had earlier requested for space activities. To provide the funds which are needed to meet the following national goals first I believe that this nation should commit itself. To achieving the goal before this decade is out of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to the earth. No single space project in this area will be more impressive to mankind or more important for the long range exploration of space and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish. We propose to accelerate the development of the appropriate lunar space craft. We propose to develop alternate liquid and solid fuel boosters much larger than any now being developed until certain which is superior. We propose additional funds for other engine developed and for on manned exploration. Explorations which are particularly important. For one purpose which this nation will never overlook the survival of the man who first makes this daring flight. But in a very real sense it will not be one man going to the moon. We make this judgment affirmatively it will be an entire nation. For all of us must work to put in a. Secondly an additional $23000000 together with $7000000 already available will accelerate development of the robot nuclear rocket. This gives promise. Of some day providing a means for even more exciting and ambitious exploration of space. Beyond the mold. Back to the very end of the solar system itself. Third an additional $50000000 will make the most of our present leadership. By accelerating the use of space satellites the worldwide communication. For some additional $75000000 of which $53000000 is for the weather bureau. Will help give us at the earliest possible time a satellite system away. Worldwide weather observation. Let it be clear and this is a judgment which the members of the Congress must find a. Let it be clear that I am asking the Congress and the country. To accept a firm commitment to a new course of action. A cost which will last for many years. And carry very heavy costs. $531000000 in fiscal 62. And estimated 7 to $9000000000 additional over the next 5 years. If we oughta go only halfway. Or reduce our sites in the face of difficulty in my judgment it would be better not to go at all. Now this is a choice which this country must make and I'm confident that under the leadership of the state based committees of the Congress in the appropriating committees that you will consider the matter calf it is the most important decision that we make as a nation. But to all of you have lived up to the last 4 years. I've seen a significance of space. And the adventures in space and no one can predict with certainty. The ultimate meeting will be of mastery of space. I believe we should go to the mall. But I think every citizen of this country as well as the members of the Congress to consider the matter calf in making their judgment. Which we've given attention over many weeks and months. Because it is a heavy burden. And there is no sense in agreeing out or desiring that the United States take an affirmative position in outer space unless we are prepared to do the work and they have the burden is to make it successful if we are not we should decide today. This decision demands a major national commitment. Of scientific and technical manpower. But Terry Allen facilities. The possibility of their diversion from other important activities where they're already thinly and spread. That means a degree of dedication organization and discipline. Which are not always characterized our research and development efforts. Means we cannot afford undo work stoppages. Inflated cost of material a talent. Wasteful interagency rivals. Or a high turnover of key personnel. New objectives in new money cannot solve these problems. They could in fact aggravate them further unless every scientist. Every engineer every serviceman every technician contract and civil servants. Gives his personal pledge that this nation will move forward. With a full speed of freedom in the exciting adventure space.
